UM Nonlin - Version 1.2.2 (11/92)

README File (updated 3/22/95)

Parallel Understanding Systems Group
Department of Computer Science
University of Maryland at College Park
(c) 1992

INTRODUCTION
------------
This directory contains the source files for a Common Lisp
implementation of the Nonlin planning system originally designed and
implemented by Austin Tate.  The implementation is relatively faithful
to the methodology of the original Nonlin, although some name changes
have been made within the operators to conform more closely to more
recent usage in the planning community.  The brief manual provided
(see below) describes these differences and reports on how to load and
run the program.  We also provide some files with simple examples that
are described in the document (useful for debugging and for learning
to use the system).  The system has been tested in several Commonlisp
implementations, but of course we cannot guarantee that it will work
in all implementations.  Finally, we should note that an ability to
make extensions to or to debug this code will require greater
familiarity with Nonlin than is provided in the documentation
provided.  The original conference papers and technical reports on
Nonlin (cited in the documentation) are required reading for anyone
wishing to hack this code.


INSTALLATION
------------
To obtain the necessary files:

1) FTP the files:

  a) ftp cs.umd.edu (128.8.128.8) and login as anonymous
  b) issue the following ftp commands:
	cd /pub/nonlin
	binary
	get nonlin-files.tar.Z
	get nonlin.ps.Z

    Note: Those without the ability to ftp this code should contact 
    Prof. Hendler (see address below) to make special arrangements.

2)  Uncompress the files via "uncompress nonlin-files.tar.Z".

3)  The source code files should be extracted from the file
    "nonlin-files.tar" via "tar -xvf nonlin-files.tar".
    This will install the files in a subdirectory named "Nonlin".

4)  Edit the variables at the top of file load-nonlin.lisp

[*** NOTE TO LUCID COMMON LISP USERS:
     Use the file load-nonlin-lucid.lisp in place of load-nonlin.lisp
     for the above step and for other steps indicated in the manual. 
]

The user manual describing the implementation and how to run UM Nonlin
is contained in the file nonlin.ps, which should be uncompressed 
before viewing or printing.

The file nonlin-history.txt contains details about changes made to this
and previous releases of UM Nonlin.

SUPPORT
-------
This project is being distributed free of charge with no implied
warranty or support.  To allow communication between users, we have
set up some mailing lists which can be used for reporting bugs and
getting reports of bug fixes.  Announcements of patches and updates
will be made via these mailing lists.  We request that anyone ftp'ing
this code send a message to "nonlin-users-request@cs.umd.edu" 
(US internet) letting us know you have a copy, and also letting us
know if you wish to subscribe to the list "nonlin-users@cs.umd.edu".
Information, new examples, etc. are expected to be shared via the
nonlin-users mailing list, so we would recommend subscribing.


CONTACTS
--------
The following mailing lists have been set up for this implementation of
of NONLIN:
   nonlin-bugs@cs.umd.edu           (to report bugs in the implementation)
   nonlin-users@cs.umd.edu          (users of this implementation)
   nonlin-users-request@cs.umd.edu  (for requests from users)

Reports of bugs found in the implementation, and we are sure there are
some, can be sent to "nonlin-bugs@cs.umd.edu" which will be read by
the implementors and others who are familiar with the source code.  If
you wish to receive this mailing list, you may also send mail to
"non-users-request@cs.umd.edu" although we ask that you be serious
about participating.  The nonlin-users list will be used to report
bugs found via this mailing list as well as fixes to those bugs.

A page has been set up for UM Nonlin news on the Worldwide Web (WWW) 
at URL http://www.cs.umd.edu/projects/plus/Nonlin/nonlin.html

Correspondence can be addressed to
   Prof. James Hendler
   Department of Computer Science 
   University of Maryland 
   College Park, Md. 20742
   hendler@cs.umd.edu (US internet)

Happy Planning!

